_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "Hello! :wave:"
excerpt: "About me."
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am an interdisciplinary researcher working at the intersection of Human-Computer Interaction (HCI), Behavior Science, and AI/ML. I broadly explore problems related to better human data and feedback collection for AI, as well as personalizing user experiences at scale. My research has been applied across diverse fields, including recommendation systems, wearable health, crowdsourcing, and developer tools.


I work at [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) as their first Quantitative User Researcher, personalizing developer experiences in the age of AI. Previously, I was a Research Scientist at [Spotify](https://research.atspotify.com/) in the Human-in-the-AI (HAI) Lab, where I focused on human evaluation of recommender systems and modeling users' streaming behavior. 


I completed my PhD in Human-Computer Interaction from Northeastern University, Boston, MA, working with [Stephen Intille](https://www.khoury.northeastern.edu/home/intille/). I was fortunate to collaborate closely with [Seth Cooper](https://www.khoury.northeastern.edu/home/scooper/), [Genevieve Dunton](https://keck.usc.edu/faculty-search/genevieve-dunton/), [Don Hedeker](https://stat.uchicago.edu/people/profile/donald-hedeker/), [Sam F Way](http://samfway.com/), [Jenn Thom](https://www.jennthom.com/), and Alice Wang. 

For my [dissertation](https://dl.acm.org/doi/book/10.5555/AAI28962283), I introduced a novel experience-sampling method using smartwatches to collect large-scale, personalized self-report data in real-world settings. In addition, I built open-source tools for [multi-level modeling](https://reach-lab.github.io/MixWildGUI/) and [AI-assisted annotation](https://signaligner.org/) of longitudinal user behavior data to develop pattern recognition algorithms.


I regularly publish my work in highly competitive venues, including PACM IMWUT (UbiComp), PACM CSCW, ACM IUI, ACM WebSci, ACM CHI PLAY, NeurIPS Workshops, Behavior Research Methods, Journal of Medical Internet Research, and Translational Behavior Medicine. **I am always excited about new product-oriented research or applied science opportunities.**

Updates
------
  
**Jan, 2026** 💡 Our paper titled "Semantically Enriching Personal Mobility Data using OpenStreetMap: A Case Study using Smartphone Users’ Frequently Visited Places" is accepted at the [Journal of Location-based Services](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/17489725.2025.2609927#abstract).


**Nov, 2025** 🥇 Presented our personalized experience sampling approach at [QuantUXCOn 2025](https://www.quantuxcon.org/quant-ux-con/quant-ux-con-2025). Jixin Li led the presentation.


**Oct, 2025** 🤖 Gave a seminar talk at Bentley University on "Interfaces for human data collection for AI and pattern recognition", summarizing my research in this area over the past 6 years.


**Oct, 2025** 🔬 Our longitudinal evaluation of microinteraction ecological momentary assessment is now available on [ACM DL](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3749541). We are presenting this work, along with [personalized experience sampling](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3699735) at [ACM UbiComp 2025](https://www.ubicomp.org/ubicomp-iswc-2025/), in Espoo, Finland.


**Aug, 2025** 📝 Excited to join as an Associate Chair for CHI 2026 Computational Interaction subcommittee. Send in your best work!

**July, 2025** 🎉 Paper titled "Longitudinal User Engagement with Microinteraction Ecological Momentary Assessment (μEMA)" accepted at Proceedings of the ACM IMWUT!


**April, 2025** 🤗 TIME study data [codebook](https://timestudydocumentation.github.io/docs/build/html/index.html) is now public! This is one of the most intense multimodal behavior datasets. We can't wait to see what you build with it.


**Jan, 2025** 🔎 Excited to be the Associate Chair of CHI 2025, [Late Breaking Work (LBW)](https://chi2025.acm.org/for-authors/late-breaking-work/) track. Send in your most exciting work!


**Nov, 2024.** 🚀 Our PACM IMWUT paper on personalized adaptive experience sampling is now available on [ACM DL](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3699735).


**Oct, 2024.** ⌚ Had a great time giving an invited talk at [BostonCHI](https://www.bostonchi.org/2024/09/scaling-experience-sampling-with-microinteractions/) on "Scaling Experience Sampling with Microinteractions"







<details>

<summary>Past updates</summary>

{% capture my_markdown_content %}


**Jun, 2024.** 🙏 Thanks to everyone who attended my QuantUXCon talk on "Scaling Experience Sampling with Smartwatch Interactions." [Here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1dGA-noJDE7PvFH22RcJ91Yp91XU00haEiQW0yLgDZKo/edit?usp=sharing) are the slides for those interested.



  **May, 2024.** 🎙️ Gave an invited lecture on human-centered recommender systems, focusing on music and podcast recommendations at Northeastern University.


  **May, 2024.** 🎸 Our [Spotify R&D](https://research.atspotify.com/2024/05/how-do-people-stream-newly-released-music/) blog on large-scale patterns in new music streaming behavior is now live.


  **April, 2024.** 🎹 I was interviewed by the [Industry PLaylist](https://theindustryplaylist.substack.com/p/things-im-thinking-about-d1c) newsletter, India's leading source of indie music news on music recommendations and new music streaming behavior.


  **April, 2024.** 👨‍🎤 Our ACM WebSci'24 paper on the first large-scale analysis of new music streaming behavior patterns is now available on [ACM DL](https://research.atspotify.com/publications/a-genre-based-analysis-of-new-music-streaming-at-scale/).

  
 
  **Oct, 2023.** 🏆 Our [PACM IMWUT paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3517259) on long-term contextual biases in micro-EMA non-response received the [distinguished paper award](https://dl.acm.org/journal/imwut/distinguished-paper-awards) (~1% award rate).

 
  
  **Sept, 2023.** 🙂 Finally concluded my last organized talk at BostonCHI as a chair. This is a special one by [Gregory Abowd](https://www.bostonchi.org/2023/05/gregory-abowd-ignorance-is-bliss-a-career-retrospective-hybrid-event/) on the CHI Lifetime Achievement award.


  **Jun, 2023.** Our intensive longitudinal data collection in [TIME study](https://reach.usc.edu/research/studies/microt/) is complete. Stay tuned for the year-long longitudinal data on behaviors and decision-making to go live!

  
  **April, 2023.** 🎙️ Our Spotify R&D [blogpost](https://research.atspotify.com/2023/03/exploring-goal-oriented-podcast-recommendations/) on goal-based podcast recommendations from our IUI'23 paper is now live.


  **Sept, 2022.** Presented our [PACM IMWUT paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3517259) on contextual biases with micro-EMA non-response at UbiComp 2022. Was great to meet a lot of old collaborators and friends.


  **Feb, 2022.** 🎮 Was interviewed by [VentureBeat](https://venturebeat.com/ai/how-video-games-could-be-used-to-generate-ai-training-data/) magazine on using videogames to generate large-scale AI training data.
  
  {% endcapture %}
  {{ my_markdown_content | markdownify }}
  
</details>

Commit message:

Update about page with new research focus and publications
Revised personal research description and updated publication details.

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "Hello! :wave:"
excerpt: "About me."
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am an interdisciplinary researcher working at the intersection of Human-Computer Interaction (HCI), Behavior Science, and AI/ML. My interests are in understanding how humans and models impact each other to drive new products, insights, and strategy. My research has been applied across diverse fields, including recommendation systems, wearable health, crowdsourcing, and developer tools.


I work at [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) as their first Quantitative User Researcher, personalizing developer experiences in the age of AI. Previously, I was a Research Scientist at [Spotify](https://research.atspotify.com/) in the Human-in-the-AI (HAI) Lab, where I focused on human evaluation of recommender systems and modeling users' streaming behavior. 


I completed my PhD in Human-Computer Interaction from Northeastern University, Boston, MA, working with [Stephen Intille](https://www.khoury.northeastern.edu/home/intille/). I was fortunate to collaborate closely with [Seth Cooper](https://www.khoury.northeastern.edu/home/scooper/), [Genevieve Dunton](https://keck.usc.edu/faculty-search/genevieve-dunton/), [Don Hedeker](https://stat.uchicago.edu/people/profile/donald-hedeker/), [Sam F Way](http://samfway.com/), [Jenn Thom](https://www.jennthom.com/), and Alice Wang. 

During my [PhD](https://dl.acm.org/doi/book/10.5555/AAI28962283), I introduced a novel experience-sampling method using smartwatches to collect large-scale, personalized self-report data in real-world settings. In addition, I built open-source tools for [multi-level modeling](https://reach-lab.github.io/MixWildGUI/) and [AI-assisted annotation](https://signaligner.org/) of longitudinal user behavior data to train pattern recognition algorithms.

I regularly publish my work in highly competitive venues, including PACM IMWUT (UbiComp), PACM CSCW, ACM IUI, NeurIPS Workshops, Behavior Research Methods, JMIR, and Translational Behavior Medicine. 

I live in the Greater Boston Area, enjoying the beautiful New England 🍁 with my wife, daughter, and our dog Sushi 🍣

**I am always excited about new product-oriented research or applied science opportunities.**

Updates
------
  
**Jan, 2026** 💡 Our paper titled "Semantically Enriching Personal Mobility Data using OpenStreetMap: A Case Study using Smartphone Users’ Frequently Visited Places" is accepted at the [Journal of Location-based Services](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/17489725.2025.2609927#abstract).


**Nov, 2025** 🥇 Presented our personalized experience sampling approach at [QuantUXCOn 2025](https://www.quantuxcon.org/quant-ux-con/quant-ux-con-2025). Jixin Li led the presentation.


**Oct, 2025** 🤖 Gave a seminar talk at Bentley University on "Interfaces for human data collection for AI and pattern recognition", summarizing my research in this area over the past 6 years.


**Oct, 2025** 🔬 Our longitudinal evaluation of microinteraction ecological momentary assessment is now available on [ACM DL](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3749541). We are presenting this work, along with [personalized experience sampling](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3699735) at [ACM UbiComp 2025](https://www.ubicomp.org/ubicomp-iswc-2025/), in Espoo, Finland.


**Aug, 2025** 📝 Excited to join as an Associate Chair for CHI 2026 Computational Interaction subcommittee. Send in your best work!

**July, 2025** 🎉 Paper titled "Longitudinal User Engagement with Microinteraction Ecological Momentary Assessment (μEMA)" accepted at Proceedings of the ACM IMWUT!


**April, 2025** 🤗 TIME study data [codebook](https://timestudydocumentation.github.io/docs/build/html/index.html) is now public! This is one of the most intense multimodal behavior datasets. We can't wait to see what you build with it.


**Jan, 2025** 🔎 Excited to be the Associate Chair of CHI 2025, [Late Breaking Work (LBW)](https://chi2025.acm.org/for-authors/late-breaking-work/) track. Send in your most exciting work!


**Nov, 2024.** 🚀 Our PACM IMWUT paper on personalized adaptive experience sampling is now available on [ACM DL](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3699735).


**Oct, 2024.** ⌚ Had a great time giving an invited talk at [BostonCHI](https://www.bostonchi.org/2024/09/scaling-experience-sampling-with-microinteractions/) on "Scaling Experience Sampling with Microinteractions"







<details>

<summary>Past updates</summary>

{% capture my_markdown_content %}


**Jun, 2024.** 🙏 Thanks to everyone who attended my QuantUXCon talk on "Scaling Experience Sampling with Smartwatch Interactions." [Here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1dGA-noJDE7PvFH22RcJ91Yp91XU00haEiQW0yLgDZKo/edit?usp=sharing) are the slides for those interested.



  **May, 2024.** 🎙️ Gave an invited lecture on human-centered recommender systems, focusing on music and podcast recommendations at Northeastern University.


  **May, 2024.** 🎸 Our [Spotify R&D](https://research.atspotify.com/2024/05/how-do-people-stream-newly-released-music/) blog on large-scale patterns in new music streaming behavior is now live.


  **April, 2024.** 🎹 I was interviewed by the [Industry PLaylist](https://theindustryplaylist.substack.com/p/things-im-thinking-about-d1c) newsletter, India's leading source of indie music news on music recommendations and new music streaming behavior.


  **April, 2024.** 👨‍🎤 Our ACM WebSci'24 paper on the first large-scale analysis of new music streaming behavior patterns is now available on [ACM DL](https://research.atspotify.com/publications/a-genre-based-analysis-of-new-music-streaming-at-scale/).

  
 
  **Oct, 2023.** 🏆 Our [PACM IMWUT paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3517259) on long-term contextual biases in micro-EMA non-response received the [distinguished paper award](https://dl.acm.org/journal/imwut/distinguished-paper-awards) (~1% award rate).

 
  
  **Sept, 2023.** 🙂 Finally concluded my last organized talk at BostonCHI as a chair. This is a special one by [Gregory Abowd](https://www.bostonchi.org/2023/05/gregory-abowd-ignorance-is-bliss-a-career-retrospective-hybrid-event/) on the CHI Lifetime Achievement award.


  **Jun, 2023.** Our intensive longitudinal data collection in [TIME study](https://reach.usc.edu/research/studies/microt/) is complete. Stay tuned for the year-long longitudinal data on behaviors and decision-making to go live!

  
  **April, 2023.** 🎙️ Our Spotify R&D [blogpost](https://research.atspotify.com/2023/03/exploring-goal-oriented-podcast-recommendations/) on goal-based podcast recommendations from our IUI'23 paper is now live.


  **Sept, 2022.** Presented our [PACM IMWUT paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3517259) on contextual biases with micro-EMA non-response at UbiComp 2022. Was great to meet a lot of old collaborators and friends.


  **Feb, 2022.** 🎮 Was interviewed by [VentureBeat](https://venturebeat.com/ai/how-video-games-could-be-used-to-generate-ai-training-data/) magazine on using videogames to generate large-scale AI training data.
  
  {% endcapture %}
  {{ my_markdown_content | markdownify }}
  
</details>
